---
title: "Rationale and design of a randomised controlled trial testing the effect of personalised diet in individuals with pre-diabetes or type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with metformin"
date: "2020-01-01"
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2020-037859

categories:
  - "CGM"
  - "Diabetes"
  - "T2DM"
  - "Segal lab"
  - "BMJ Open"
  - "2020"
---

Htet T, Godneva A, Liu Z, Chalmers E, Kolobkov D, Snaith J, Richens R, Toth K, Danta M, Hng T, Elinav E, Segal E, Greenfield J, Samocha-Bonet D, [*BMJ Open*](http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2020-037859)

## Paper summary

<jats:sec><jats:title>Introduction</jats:title><jats:p>Metformin and diets aimed at promoting healthy body weight are the first line in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Clinical practice, backed by clinical trials, suggests that many individuals do not reach glycaemic targets using this approach alone. The primary aim of the Personalised Medicine in Pre-diabetes—Towards Preventing Diabetes in Individuals at Risk (PREDICT) Study is to test the efficacy of personalised diet as adjuvant to metformin in improving glycaemic control in individuals with dysglycaemia.</jats:p></jats:sec><jats:sec><jats:title>Methods and analysis</jats:title><jats:p>PREDICT is a two-arm, parallel group, single-masked randomised controlled trial in adults with pre-diabetes or early-stage T2DM (with glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) up to 8.0% (64 mmol/mol)), not treated with glucose-lowering medication. PREDICT is conducted at the Clinical Research Facility at the Garvan Institute of Medical Research (Sydney). Enrolment of participants commenced in December 2018 and expected to complete in December 2021. Participants are commenced on metformin (Extended Release, titrated to a target dose of 1500 mg/day) and randomised with equal allocation to either (1) the Personalised Nutrition Project algorithm-based diet or (2) low-fat high-dietary fibre diet, designed to provide caloric restriction (75%) in individuals with body mass index &gt;25 kg/m<jats:sup>2</jats:sup>. Treatment duration is 6 months and participants visit the Clinical Research Facility five times over approximately 7 months. The primary outcome measure is HbA1c. The secondary outcomes are (1) time of interstitial glucose &lt;7.8 mmol/L and (2) glycaemic variability (continuous glucose monitoring), (3) body weight, (4) fat mass and (5) abdominal visceral fat volume (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), serum (6) low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (7) high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and (8) triglycerides concentrations, (9) blood pressure, and (10) liver fat (Fibroscan).</jats:p></jats:sec><jats:sec><jats:title>Ethics and dissemination</jats:title><jats:p>The study has been approved by the St Vincent’s Hospital Human Research Ethics Committee (File 17/080, Sydney, Australia) and the Weizmann Institutional Review Board (File 528-3, Rehovot, Israel). The findings will be published in peer-reviewed open access medical journals.</jats:p></jats:sec><jats:sec><jats:title>Trial registration number</jats:title><jats:p><jats:ext-link xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" ext-link-type="clintrialgov" specific-use="clinicaltrial pre-results" xlink:href="NCT03558867">NCT03558867</jats:ext-link>.</jats:p></jats:sec>

